packages/office-ui-fabric-react/src/components/TextField/docs/TextFieldBestPractices.md, before:

### Layout

- Use a multiline text field when long entries are expected.
- Don't place a text field in the middle of a sentence, because the sentence structure might not make sense in all languages. For example, "Remind me in [textfield] weeks" should instead read, "Remind me in this many weeks: [textfield]".
- Format the text field for the expected entry. For example, when someone needs to enter a phone number, use an input mask to indicate that three sets of digits should be entered.

### Content

- Include a short label above the text field to communicate what information should be entered. Don't use placeholder text instead of a label. Placeholder text poses a variety of accessibility issues (including possible problems with color/contrast, and people thinking the form input is already filled out).
- When part of a form, make it clear which fields are required vs. optional. If the input is required, add "(required)" to the label. Don't exclusively use "\*" to indicate required inputs as it is often not read by screen readers. For example, "First name (required)".
- Use sentence-style capitalization—only capitalize the first word. For more info, see [Capitalization](https://docs.microsoft.com/style-guide/capitalization) in the Microsoft Writing Style Guide.

Commit message:

ComboBox, Dropdown, TextField doc updates (#15100)
* Replaced "drop-down menu" with "dropdown"

We're deviating from the Microsoft Writing Style Guide guidance (hyphenating drop-down), because compounded (dropdown) style is more commonly seen across other industry-leading design systems.

* Added explanation of when to use a dropdown

* Removed "list" from "dropdown list" references

* Removed erroneous guidance about form fields

Somehow guidance got checked in that doesn't map to our best practices. Correcting that, so we ensure everyone standardizes on the uses of asterisks for denoting required fields. And added a reminder note about ARIA properties to remind folks to consider the screenreader experience.

* Fix aria-required guidance

* Change files

* updates

Co-authored-by: jennbost <45047773+jennbost@users.noreply.github.com>

packages/office-ui-fabric-react/src/components/TextField/docs/TextFieldBestPractices.md, after:

### Layout

- Use a multiline text field when long entries are expected.
- Don't place a text field in the middle of a sentence, because the sentence structure might not make sense in all languages. For example, "Remind me in [textfield] weeks" should instead read, "Remind me in this many weeks: [textfield]".
- Format the text field for the expected entry. For example, when someone needs to enter a phone number, use an input mask to indicate that three sets of digits should be entered.

### Content

- Include a short label above the text field to communicate what information should be entered. Don't use placeholder text instead of a label. Placeholder text poses a variety of accessibility issues (including possible problems with color/contrast, and people thinking the form input is already filled out).
- When part of a form, make it clear which fields are required vs. optional. If the input is required, add an asterisk "\*" to the label. For screen readers, make sure the `aria-required` property is set to `true`.
- Use sentence-style capitalization—only capitalize the first word. For more info, see [Capitalization](https://docs.microsoft.com/style-guide/capitalization) in the Microsoft Writing Style Guide.
