apps/public-docsite-v9/src/Concepts/Migration/FromV8/Troubleshooting.stories.mdx, before:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/addon-docs';

<Meta title="Concepts/Migration/from v8/Troubleshooting" />

## "I tried using the new components but there does not seem to be any styling applied to them. Am I doing something wrong?"

Components in version 8 could be used in isolation and still retain their default styling.
For components to be styled in version 9, they must be wrapped with `FluentProvider` with a theme passed to it.

We recommend placing the `FluentProvider` at the root of your app so that everything gets styled appropriately. The theme to use if you are coming from version 8 is `webLightTheme`.

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import { FluentProvider, webLightTheme } from '@fluentui/react-components';

import App from './App';

ReactDOM.render(
  <FluentProvider theme={webLightTheme}>
    <App />
  </FluentProvider>,
  document.getElementById('root'),
);
```

## "I tried using the new components inside v8 Callouts, Panels, etc. but there does not seem to be any styling applied to them. Am I doing something wrong?"

Components in version v9 use CSS variables for styling, v9 components that are using [React Portals](https://reactjs.org/docs/portals.html) handle this by default. Components like `Callout` & `Panel` in v8 don't do it, but this can be enabled with a compatibility package called `@fluentui/react-portal-compat`.

`PortalCompatProvider` should be an inner child of FluentProvider, no additional configuration is required for `@fluentui/react`.

```jsx
import { FluentProvider } from '@fluentui/react-components';
import { PortalCompatProvider } from '@fluentui/react-portal-compat';

function App() {
  return (
    <FluentProvider>
      <PortalCompatProvider>{/* your components */}</PortalCompatProvider>
    </FluentProvider>
  );
}
```

## "I managed to get the theme working but the components look different than they did previously, why is that?"

We are modernizing our components in version 9 to adhere to the latest guidelines in the Fluent Design Language. That is the reason for any visual differences you might notice.

## "What if I want to override a component's styles? Say, if I want to make them look like they did before? It seems like the styles prop does not exist anymore!"

The styling story in version 9 is very different to what existed in version 8. For one, we are moving away from providing a `styles` prop and are mostly focusing of providing styling via the `className` prop (if you are worried about how could you style every piece of a component via `className`, do not fret and keep reading).

We are also moving away from `mergeStyles` in favor of `makeStyles` from [`@griffel/react`](https://github.com/microsoft/griffel), a new in-house CSS-in-JS solution that allows for things like atomic classes and build-time optimization of styles.

If you want to learn more, read our [guide on how to style components](?path=/story/concepts-developer-styling-components--page).

Commit message:

docs: add troubleshooting guide for migrating layered elements
When mixing v8 and v9 layered elements it is easy to end up with
inconsistent z-positioning.

apps/public-docsite-v9/src/Concepts/Migration/FromV8/Troubleshooting.stories.mdx, after:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/addon-docs';

<Meta title="Concepts/Migration/from v8/Troubleshooting" />

## "I tried using the new components but there does not seem to be any styling applied to them. Am I doing something wrong?"

Components in version 8 could be used in isolation and still retain their default styling.
For components to be styled in version 9, they must be wrapped with `FluentProvider` with a theme passed to it.

We recommend placing the `FluentProvider` at the root of your app so that everything gets styled appropriately. The theme to use if you are coming from version 8 is `webLightTheme`.

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import { FluentProvider, webLightTheme } from '@fluentui/react-components';

import App from './App';

ReactDOM.render(
  <FluentProvider theme={webLightTheme}>
    <App />
  </FluentProvider>,
  document.getElementById('root'),
);
```

## "I tried using the new components inside v8 Callouts, Panels, etc. but there does not seem to be any styling applied to them. Am I doing something wrong?"

Components in version v9 use CSS variables for styling, v9 components that are using [React Portals](https://reactjs.org/docs/portals.html) handle this by default. Components like `Callout` & `Panel` in v8 don't do it, but this can be enabled with a compatibility package called `@fluentui/react-portal-compat`.

`PortalCompatProvider` should be an inner child of FluentProvider, no additional configuration is required for `@fluentui/react`.

```jsx
import { FluentProvider } from '@fluentui/react-components';
import { PortalCompatProvider } from '@fluentui/react-portal-compat';

function App() {
  return (
    <FluentProvider>
      <PortalCompatProvider>{/* your components */}</PortalCompatProvider>
    </FluentProvider>
  );
}
```

## "I tried uing a layered v8 component like Callout in a layered v9 component like Dialog and my Callout appears beneath my Dialog. What's going on?"

Both v9 and v8 layers set a `z-index: 10000` by default, which means the document order will resolve their z-positioning. This can lead to inconsistent behavior because z-positioning depends on the order in which elements are opened.
To work around this set the `z-index` for one of the layers differently to ensure the correct layering. For example, for a v9 `Dialog` that contains a v8 `Callout` you can set the `Dialog`'s `z-index` to `9999` to ensure it is always beneath the `Callout`.

## "I managed to get the theme working but the components look different than they did previously, why is that?"

We are modernizing our components in version 9 to adhere to the latest guidelines in the Fluent Design Language. That is the reason for any visual differences you might notice.

## "What if I want to override a component's styles? Say, if I want to make them look like they did before? It seems like the styles prop does not exist anymore!"

The styling story in version 9 is very different to what existed in version 8. For one, we are moving away from providing a `styles` prop and are mostly focusing of providing styling via the `className` prop (if you are worried about how could you style every piece of a component via `className`, do not fret and keep reading).

We are also moving away from `mergeStyles` in favor of `makeStyles` from [`@griffel/react`](https://github.com/microsoft/griffel), a new in-house CSS-in-JS solution that allows for things like atomic classes and build-time optimization of styles.

If you want to learn more, read our [guide on how to style components](?path=/story/concepts-developer-styling-components--page).
