packages/react-next/src/components/SearchBox/docs/SearchBoxBestPractices.md, before:

### Zero input state

When the user has clicked into the SearchBox, but has not entered any text, there is an opportunity to display "hint text" within the input field, explaining what a user can do next. This could prompt a user to search for specific type content, or explain the scope of the search. Examples include "type to search", "try searching for \<x\>", "search for a place" or "type to search in \<x location\>".

### Search scopes

Although search entry points tend to be similarly visualized, they can provide access to results that range from broad to narrow. By effectively communicating the scope of a search, you can help to ensure that the user expectation will be met by the capabilities of the search you are performing, which will reduce the possibility of frustration. The search entry point should be juxtaposed with the content being searched.

Some common search scopes include:

- **Global:** Search across multiple sources of cloud and local content. Varied results include URLs, documents, media, actions, apps, and more.
- **Web:** Search a web index. Results include pages, entities, and answers.
- **My stuff:** Search across device(s), cloud, social graphs, and more. Results are varied, but are constrained by the connection to user account(s).

### SearchBox with no parent container

Use a SearchBox without a parent container when it is not restricted to a certain width to accommodate other content. This search box will span the entire width of the space it's in.

Commit message:

Updating react-next component documentation (#15107)
* Updating v8 docs

* Updating Persona.doc.tsx file imports.

* Reverting an unintended change in Persona.doc.tsx

* Change files

* Updating docs for Callout, Coachmark, ComboBox, Dropdown, and TextField.

packages/react-next/src/components/SearchBox/docs/SearchBoxBestPractices.md, after:

### Layout

- Don't build a custom search control based on the default text box or any other control.
- Use a search box without a parent container when it's not restricted to a certain width to accommodate other content. This search box will span the entire width of the space it's in.

### Content

- Use placeholder text in the search box to describe what people can search for. For example, "Search", "Search files", or "Search contacts list".
- Although search entry points tend to be similarly visualized, they can provide access to results that range from broad to narrow. By effectively communicating the scope of a search, you can ensure that people's expectations are met by the capabilities of the search you're performing, which will reduce the possibility of frustration. The search entry point should be placed near the content being searched.<br/><br/>Some common search scopes include:
  - **Global**: Search across multiple sources of cloud and local content. Varied results include URLs, documents, media, actions, apps, and more.
  - **Web**: Search a web index. Results include pages, entities, and answers.
  - **My stuff**: Search across devices, cloud, social graphs, and more. Results are varied but are constrained by the connection to user accounts.
