packages/office-ui-fabric-react/src/components/DetailsList/docs/DetailsListBestPractices.md, before:

## Layout
 - List items are composed of selection, icon, and name columns at minimum. You can include other columns, such as date modified, or any other metadata field associated with the collection. 
 - Avoid using file type icon overlays to denote status of a file as it can make the entire icon unclear. 
 - If there are multiple lines of text in a column, consider the variable row height variant.
 - Give columns ample default width to display information.
 
 ## Content
 - Make your column headers easier to read and translate, use sentence casing.



## FAQ
### My scrollable content isn't updating on scroll. What should I do?

Add the `data-is-scrollable="true"` attribute to your scrollable element containing the DetailsList.

By default, the List used within DetailsList will use the `BODY` element as the scrollable element. If you contain the List within a scrollable `DIV` using `overflow: auto` or `scroll`, the List needs to listen for scroll events on that element instead. On initialization, the List will traverse up the DOM looking for the first element with the `data-is-scrollable` attribute to know when element to listen to for knowing when to re-evaulate the visible window.

### My List is not re-rendering when I mutate its items. What should I do?

To determine if the List within DetailsList should re-render its contents, the component performs a referential equality check within its `shouldComponentUpdate` method.
This is done to minimize the performance overhead associating with re-rendering the virtualized List pages, as recommended by the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/docs/optimizing-performance.html#the-power-of-not-mutating-data).

As a result of this implementation, the inner List will not determine it should re-render if the array values are mutated.
To avoid this problem, we recommend re-creating the items array backing the DetailsList by using a method such as `Array.prototype.concat` or ES6 spread syntax shown below:

```tsx
public appendItems(): void {
  const { items } = this.state;

  this.setState({
    items: [...items, ...['Foo', 'Bar']]
  })
}

public render(): JSX.Element {
  const { items } = this.state;

  return <DetailsList items={items} />;
}
```

By re-creating the items array without mutating the values, the inner List will correctly determine its contents have changed and that it should re-render the new values.

Commit message:

Added link to Microsoft Writing Style Guide
Content guidance now directly links to the official capitalization topic in our Microsoft Writing Style Guide.

packages/office-ui-fabric-react/src/components/DetailsList/docs/DetailsListBestPractices.md, after:

## Layout
 - List items are composed of selection, icon, and name columns at minimum. You can include other columns, such as date modified, or any other metadata field associated with the collection. 
 - Avoid using file type icon overlays to denote status of a file as it can make the entire icon unclear. 
 - If there are multiple lines of text in a column, consider the variable row height variant.
 - Give columns ample default width to display information.
 
 ## Content
 - Use sentence-style capitalization for column headers—only capitalize the first word. For more info, see [Capitalization] in the Microsoft Writing Style Guide. 
 
 [Capitalization]: https://docs.microsoft.com/style-guide/capitalization



## FAQ
### My scrollable content isn't updating on scroll. What should I do?

Add the `data-is-scrollable="true"` attribute to your scrollable element containing the DetailsList.

By default, the List used within DetailsList will use the `BODY` element as the scrollable element. If you contain the List within a scrollable `DIV` using `overflow: auto` or `scroll`, the List needs to listen for scroll events on that element instead. On initialization, the List will traverse up the DOM looking for the first element with the `data-is-scrollable` attribute to know when element to listen to for knowing when to re-evaulate the visible window.

### My List is not re-rendering when I mutate its items. What should I do?

To determine if the List within DetailsList should re-render its contents, the component performs a referential equality check within its `shouldComponentUpdate` method.
This is done to minimize the performance overhead associating with re-rendering the virtualized List pages, as recommended by the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/docs/optimizing-performance.html#the-power-of-not-mutating-data).

As a result of this implementation, the inner List will not determine it should re-render if the array values are mutated.
To avoid this problem, we recommend re-creating the items array backing the DetailsList by using a method such as `Array.prototype.concat` or ES6 spread syntax shown below:

```tsx
public appendItems(): void {
  const { items } = this.state;

  this.setState({
    items: [...items, ...['Foo', 'Bar']]
  })
}

public render(): JSX.Element {
  const { items } = this.state;

  return <DetailsList items={items} />;
}
```

By re-creating the items array without mutating the values, the inner List will correctly determine its contents have changed and that it should re-render the new values.
